So at this point,
I think the download is already working.
But what we're gonna do, and
it's going to be a little painful, but
we are going to,
you can pick two different shapes.
I'm going to draw a triangle and a circle,
and we're going to do that 40 times each.
So, we're going to probably spend
maybe the next 10, 15 minutes,
we're going to draw and
we're gonna download every picture.
And what we'll do after is,
you can create,
let's create now a data folder.
So let me just check check,
a second, where exactly, so yeah,
the Data folder can be outside of
the Public folder, that's fine.
So here at the root of the project,
create an empty Data folder.
And for now,
what we're going to do is, so again,
I can do one just to
show you to get started.
So, let's say I draw a triangle,
so I have a triangle like this,
and I'm going to download it,
and it will be this one.
And here I'm going to
start by renaming it, and
I'm gonna do 0 because this is the first
one, and then triangle, like that.
And then I will, I'm gonna stop my
server and open my folder here.
And in my data folder, I'm going to
drag this zero triangle drawing,
and I'm going to do the same again and
again.
So I clear, and then I draw a new
triangle, and then I download, and
why do I call it, 1-triangle.
And I'm gonna do that, and you're
gonna do that 40 times for each label.
So if you want to do a square instead of a
circle or whatever, I'm gonna do triangle
and circle and I'm probably, I think we
could be able to do in 10, 15 minutes.
So, if you want to get started now,
I'm gonna do it as well.
All right, so let's do it.
All right, so, hopefully you're done with
drawing 40 circles and 40 triangles.
If you haven't had the time or
if you're not ready to have 40 but
you have at least maybe 30, that's right.
If you only have 10,
that's gonna be not enough.
But at the end, your data folder should
be kinda full of files that have
the format like 0- and then your labels,
so the name of your shape.
So I have 0-circle.png, 0-triangle, and
then, 1-circle, 1-triangle,
all the way to the end.
So it looks kind of cool like that.
So you should have about 80 files,
that would be a good start.
In general, obviously,
if look at open source datasets,
they have like thousands of images,
we do not have the time for that.
So what's gonna be interesting is
that as we create our model later on,
we'll see that our accuracy is probably
not going to be 90% or anything,
it's probably gonna be lower because-.
Because of the amount
of images that we have.
And then we'll be able to
talk about how you can
improve your accuracy by
drawing more triangles.
And obviously here we did it by hand,
we drew circles and we drew triangles.
And in the end, if you get tired, your
circles end up looking more like squares.
But yes, usually, there are ways where you
can actually automate some of that work,
some of you might have done it.
And what I've done in the past is you
can do, I think it's called either data
augmentation or data transformation,
is you can write a Python script, and
you can take one of your image and
resize it in a different way.
So you can flip it, for example,
or you can reverse it, and
you can then end up generating maybe five
more images from a single image, and
that's like a quick way to end
up with having a lot more data.
So, if you want at
the end of this workshop,
you realize that your model is not
accurate enough and you want to data,
then you can go and
write a Python script that will take.
For example, your first circle, and
then you are rotate it 19 degrees, and
then again, again, again.
So you have like all the different angles
and then you can also flip it, and
that will give you about six images
from one circle that you drew.
So you end up 80 drawings times 6.
I'm not gonna count here, but you can end
up with maybe a couple hundred drawings.
So that will hopefully then improve
the accuracy of your model.
But for now, I wanted to do it the manual
way, just to show you how it's done.
And now that we have our data in
the Data folder, one thing that is good
to know when we are working with
machine learning is that you need to
kind of split your data set between
a training set and a test set.
So what we can do here is,
inside your data folder still,
you can create a new folder.
So I'm gonna do it outside.
So I'm gonna create a folder here
that I'm gonna call train, and
I'm gonna drag it into my data folder.
And I'm also gonna create a new
folder called test, and again,
I'm dragging it into my data folder.
So in the end, your data folder
should have all your images and
then a test folder and a train folder.
And what we're gonna do in here
is we are going to maybe copy,
let's say,
if you have 40 drawings of each shape.
Maybe we're gonna copy 30 of each
drawing into the train's folder and
then 10 into the test folder.
So you kind of maybe want a split of 80%
of your images into a train folder and
then maybe 20% into a test folder.
So depend, if you don't have 40 images,
kind of like,
see how much you can actually
drag in there, but if I have, so
here I will go until my, or
maybe let's do either 25 or 30.
I think it should be fine.
So if we select until our 30th drawing and
we drag it into, okay,
well, I can just copy.
So we can select them, Copy,
go in your Train folder, Paste.
You should paste them all, okay?
So we should have 0 to 30, and
then we are going to maybe,
well, let's select from 31 to 40.
So actually, it's not more gonna be 31 9,
but that's fine.
So we can copy here and
put them in the Test folder, Paste.
Okay, so now if you want, you can
delete the images I started for them.
We're gonna keep them, it's fine,
we're not going to load them into our app.
But it means that if you look at your
train folder, you should have a bunch of
images, and in your test folder
you should have a bit less.
So the way this is going to be used is
that we're going to use all of the images
in the train folder to
actually train our model.
And then at the end of the training step,
we'll use the test images, so
the images that the model
would have not seen before and
be able to check if its prediction match
the label that's in the name of the file.
So at this point, all we have is data,
kind of, hand drawn data.
So the first thing that we need to do is
to, start to load that data in our app.
So if we go to, the getData file,
I kind of split my
files into the three steps
that we're going to take.
So this is going to be written in Node.js.
So if you have not really written
Node.js before, it's just very similar,
it just doesn't run
directly in the browser.
So instead of using import, though,
we're going to use const tf,
and we're going to require @tensorflow,
and we're gonna use node GPU.
So, @tensorflow/tfgs-node-gpu, and
t TensorFlow here is going to be used
to create tensors out of our images,
so that then they can
be fed into the model.
But then because we are working with
a file system, we also need to require fs.
So const fs require the file system,
native node module.
And we also need to
declare a path variable.
So require and then path.
So, in terms of things that you need
to require, that should be it for now.
Then we're going to create a variable
to indicate the path to our data.
So we can do train, images,
directory, so trainImagesDir, and
this is just going to be ./data and
/train.
And we need to do the same to also
indicate the path to our test file.
So you can copy your line, and
instead of trainImagesDir,
we're going to write testImageDir, and
we also update the path from
./data/train to ./data/test.
And then what we're going to do
is we're going to just create two
arrays to hold our data.
So we create, let trainData,
it's gonna be an empty array,
or, actually, let me just check.
I think we can actually just not
even give it a value for now,
cuz we'll just assign it directly later.
So we can have,
let trainData and testData, so
that will contain our tensors
with our data later on.
So at this point, we just have like
a basic setup but we have not yet
loaded their images.
So we can create a function
called const loadImages, and
it's going to take in our
data directory as parameter.
And we're gonna create, oops,
my arrow function is not good here, okay.
And we're going to create two arrays, one
that's gonna actually contain the images,
the image data at least, and
one that is going to contain the labels.
Now, the next step is to
actually fetch the files or
read the files from the local folder.
So we can have let files, and
we're going to use the file system method.
So fs.readirSync.
So, careful here, readdir, like,
dir doesn't have like a capital letter.
Sometimes I get confused.
So readdir with a lowercase d and
sync with a S.
And we are passing it
the path to our directory.
So what this is going to do is going
to read the files that are from
the directory, but
then we need to loop through these files
to actually get the images and the label.
So we can create a for loop,
so we have for(let i = 0,
and then until the number of files, so
i is less than the files.length and i++.
So this loop is going to loop through all
of the files that we have in our folder.
And what we're going to
do is get the file path.
So here we, maybe not, but
let file path is going to be,
we're going to use the path
module that we required.
We're going to join and
then we do data directory.
And the second argument will be the name
of every single file, so files,
and then you get the particular
file that we're looking through.
So this is going to be the path for
each individual file, and
then we're going to be able to read
the data that's from that file.
So we can create a buffer, so
let's buffer as a variable, and
we're going to use file system as well.
So fs.readFileSync, and
we're passing it our file path.
So this is going to return the data that
is contained into each of our file, and
it's returning a buffer.
So even here,
if we wanted to look at what's going on,
what we could try to do is,
if you want to console.log the buffer,
we can try to call this function here.
So if you take the load function and
you call it and you pass it,
the train image variable,
if we want to run this,
it should actually then just show you
what the data actually looks like.
So if you have called and
then in the terminal you write node,
and that's getData.js,
it should actually return a bunch of yes.
So you can see for
every file that we are returning,
the data that we're getting
back is like a buffer.
So this is important, because then
there's some methods from TensorFlow that
are going to decode this buffer.